# Travel-app

## Intro

Hi When I started this project I was dreaming about an app that would be the best friend of any traveler. An app where you could meet travellers standing nearby you, where you could posts every pictures and precising on a map where you took it, where you could share all your trips on a personal map (precise great hostels, great experiences, the cost of life, ...), where you could plan a trip and thanks to the data provided by the users a perfect trip would have been proposed in function of your style of trip (great roads to ride, great beaches to surf, great luxury hotels to stand, ... And warning you about the visa you need at the border in function of your nationality), where you could buy your plane's tickets, where you could book your hostels and hotels and even some links to your ambassy to get the visa you need and even an app where you could save your important papers in one securised place.

Well, this is the version I developped during this last month. And I know it is far from the version I was dreaming about.
You need Node and a text editor to host this app on your computer

## How to get the project from GitHub:

In order to get all the files, you need to clone this repository from this link: [Repository GitHub](https://github.com/HadrienSmet/travel-app)

When you are standing on the right directory in your terminal, writte those lines:

```
git init
git clone https://github.com/HadrienSmet/travel-app.git
```

_The first line will turn your directory into a Github repository._
_The second line will copy every directories and files from the GitHub repository._

## Front-end

Follow those steps to make the front work:

1. Create a file inside the front directory and call it: "_.env_".
   - Inside this file you have to writte those two lines:
   ```
    REACT_APP_API_URL=$<UrlOfApi>
    REACT_APP_ADMIN_ID=$<IdOfAdmin>
   ```
   _The first constant refers to the url of the API example : http://localhost:3000/_
   _The second one refers to the id of the admin and wich is auto-generated by mongoDB when you create the admin account. You just have to copy it inside the file._
2. Install all the libraries necessary for the front.
   - When you are standing on the front directory on your terminal, writte this line:
   ```
    npm install
   ```
3. Now you can follow the steps in the README.md inside the front directory. There is not so much left. :grinning:

## Back-end

Follow those steps to make the back work:

1. Create a directory inside the back directory and call it: "_images_".
2. Install all the libraries necessary for the back:
   - When you are standing on the back directory on your terminal, writte this line:
   ```
   npm install
   ```
3. Create a file inside the back directory and call it: "_.env_".

   - Inside this file you have to writte those lines:

   ```
    ACCESS_TOKEN_SECRET=$<RandomToken>
    REFRESH_TOKEN_SECRET=$<OtherRandomToken>

    ADMIN_SECRET_NAME=$<AnyNameOfYourChoice>
    ADMIN_SECRET_PASSWORD=$<PasswordGeneratedByMongoDB>

    ADMIN_ACCOUNT_ID=<UserIdGeneratedByMongoDb>
   ```

   _The two first lines refers to the token for the authentification_
   _To create those random tokens wriite those commands in you terminal:_

   ```
   node
   require('crypto').randomBytes(64).toString('hex')
   require('crypto').randomBytes(64).toString('hex')
   ```

   _You have now two differents strings to fill the fields._ :grinning:
   _The two lines after that refers to the account on mongoDB wich created the data base_
   _You chose the name but the password is auto generated by mongoDB_
   _The last line refers to the account of the admin on the app_

4. Lauching the back
   - In your terminal, stand on the back directory and writte this command:
   ```
   nodemon server
   ```

I hope that everything worked fine for you have a good day :innocent:
